Product name: SparkFun OpenLCD

OpenLCD is an LCD with serial control, I2C control and SPI control. It may be powered from 5V to 16V. It will work with 3.3V and 5V LCD and OLED displays in sizes of 16x2 or 20x4.

Eagle PCB design for an add-on, also called a 'backpack', product will be provided as well as a PDF of the schematic. Our intention is to combine the backpack with the HD44780 based LCD. The LCD company may use whatever PCB layout software they prefer but the design files must be transmitted back to SparkFun.

Requirements:

IC: ATmega328P (QFN or TQFP package is ok)
Crystal: 8MHz (any package is ok). A crystal or ceramic resonator is ok.
Voltage regulator: Micrel MIC5205 or equivalent. The regulator must be able to input up to 16V. Input capacitors must be rated to 25V.

Communication pins: There are 16 communication pins. The communication pins must be spaced 0.1" apart and must be arranged on the top edge of the LCD in the following sequence:
(Picture of the back of a 16x2 LCD pins labeled in the following way)
GND
RAW (5-12V)
SDA
SCL
TXO
RXI
CS*
SDI
SDO
SCK
DTR
TXO
RXI
VCC
GND
GND

(picture example labeling)
Each pin must be clearly labeled on the back of the display. Font height must be a minimum of 1mm with a preferred size of 1.27mm.

(picture of current SerLCD connector)
A vertical 3-pin JST must be in the following order: Vin, GND, RX. The labels shall be "5-12V", "-" and "RX". Note: If the LCD is 3.3V version then the label must be "3.3-12V". 

(picture of logo on SerLCD)
The SparkFun Logo must appear on the PCB.

The LCD must have a jumper labeled "PU" that is a double jumper that connects two 4.7k Ohm resistors to the SDA and SCL pins. This jumper must be closed with solder by default. If the user clears this jumper it will disconnect the 4.7k Ohm resistors from the I2C bus.

The LCD must have a 10k Ohm pull-up resistor on the CS pin.

(picture of 5V box)
If the LCD is a 3.3V LCD: The voltage regulator must be 3.3V output and all VCC pins must be connected to 3.3V. A clear label of "3.3V" in a box will appear on the PCB.
If the LCD is a 5V LCD: The voltage regulator must be 5V output and all VCC pins must be connected to 5V. A clear label of "5V" in a box will appear on the PCB.

If the LCD is a 16x2 LCD: Pin 11 must be left floating.
If the LCD is a 20x4 LCD: Pin 11 must be connected to ground. 
This connection may be done through a solder jumper if it makes the design more simple.

If it is a single backlight LCD: A PNP transistor capable of sourcing 1A must be connected to control the brightness. 
If it is an RGB Backlight: Three PNP transistors capable of sourcing 1A must be connected the three backlight pins. 

Programming pins:
The ATmega328P will be programmed through a 6-pin interface. 5 of these pins will be located at the top of the LCD as described in "communication pins" section. The 6th pin, the 'reset pin', will be located where ever it makes the design most simplistic. The location of this pin will be clearly noted in a dimensional drawing so that a programming and test jig can be created that touches this pin.

Firmware and a programming jig will be provided. The entire HEX file must be loaded via SPI pins. A test procedure will be provided and must be followed for each unit.

Mounting holes: Four mounting holes will be included in the corners of the PCB.

Size of the PCB: The size of the PCB will be kept as small as possible. Ideally the PCB will be the same size as the LCD.

PCB Color: PCB must use a red soldermask.